In this segment,
I'm going to talk about why
researchers adopt an empirical
approach using data and statistics for
making progress on the problem of parsing
the structure of human language sentences.
What was the situation
that existed before that?
Well the classic way of parsing,
by which I mean before 1990 Was
that people would write a grammar,
which might be a free structure grammar or
a context free grammar,
those two terms are equivalent.
Or it might be of a more
complex format and a lexicon.
So something like this baby
example that I've shown here.
And once you have a grammar of that sort,
you can then use a grammar parsing system
or a proof system defined allowed
parses for a string of words.
The problem with this approach
is that it's scaled very badly
to the kind of sentences that
people typically write and say, and
didn't give a suitable
solution to that problem.
Let me try and
give some indication of the problem.
So consider the full version of
this sentence that we've used as
an example before.
Fed raises interest rates 0.5%
in effort to control inflation.
If I as a linguist, writer,
grammar that's not completely crazy but
has the smallest possible grammar
that can parse that sentence and
then say Parser pass the sentence.
What I find is that the grammar already
allows 36 parses for that sentence.
If I write a slightly more general
grammar which will allow other
things that commonly happen in
that drawing with sentences.
Well then suddenly, my grammar
allows 592 parses for this sentence.
And if we then look at the kind of broad
coverage grammars that are actually used
in the statistical parses, we'll talk
about and I try to pause the sentence.
I find this sentence
has millions of parses.
So you can see that we've got a problem
that's kind of out of control.
So classical parsing was
stuck between two problems.
On the one hand, you could try and put
a lot of constraint on grammars to limit
their ability through generate weird and
unlikely parses for sentences.
But the problem was that to the extent
that you did that the grammar became very
non robust.
So it was quite common in traditional
systems that even if you get a well-edited
text like news wire articles
that something like 30% of the sentences
would have no parse whatsoever.
But on the other hand,
if you made the grammar looser, so
it could parse more sentences, what you
found is that even extremely simple
sentences started getting more and
more unlikely and weird pauses.
And you didn't have any good
way to choose between them.
So what we need is a system of grammar
that's flexible enough that it can
deal with the flexible ways in which
humans use language in their daily life.
But is predictive enough that it will
allow us to choose the correct or
likely paths for the sentence.
And so, that's precisely what
the statistical parsing systems that we'll
look at in these lectures allow us to do.
How can you build
a statistical parsing system?
That's where the topic of data comes in.
And so the huge enabling factor for
being able to build statistical parsing
systems was the development of treebanks.
And here I'm showing an example
sentence from the Penn Treebank,
which was the earliest widely available
treebank and still the most famous.
So what's we've shown examples
of Treebank sentences before.
But what you actually get in the Treebank
is these kind of structures.
So the sentence tree structure is being
indicated by these parenthesis which
are nested to show constituency.
If you're an old time LISP programmer,
this should look to you as
indeed is LISP as expressions.
So this is giving the structure of
a sentence with noun phrases and
verb phrases, and various other things.
So these markings also will indicate
empty elements of various kinds, and
also sort of various
functional annotations.
So this says that this is
the subject of the sentence.
And so
once we had this kind of annotated data,
within a position in which we can use
machine learning techniques to train
passers to say what is the most
likely pass for a sentence.
We're also in a much
better position to build
robust parsers because we have
a lot of sentences that give us
some kind of indication of what kind
of flexibility of structure we need to
admit into our languages to be able
to parse typical language use.
And said this was a revelation
that if you're starting off and
actually seems like building a treebank
is a lot of work with very low payoff.
because the whole power of writing rules
of grammar Is you can write one rule and
it generalizes to thousands, millions,
in fact an infinite number
of possible sentences.
Whereas building a treebank, you're taking
one sentence at a time and parsing it.
So that seems slower and less useful, but
actually a treebank gives us many,
many useful things.
It gives us reusabilty.
Normally the parser of one person
was completely not used in
developing the parser of another person,
or it's done completely independently.
But now we've been able to build many
many parsers, part-of-speech taggers,
et cetera of pin treebank data and
it also has other wider uses.
So for example, many linguists now
use the pintreebank as a source for
testing out and
developing hypotheses about language.
The pin treebank gives us
something that is broad coverage.
It gives us the statistics that'll
allow us to choose between parsers.
And it gives us another thing that's
improved to be incredibly important.
It gives us a way to evaluate
parsers on a common test bed so
that we have good data on which parsers
are better or worse than other parsers.
Now of course these days the Pin
tree makers aren't the only parser,
there are now dozens of treebanks.
There are both treebanks for
different languages and treebanks for
different genres.
The original Pin treebank
was just newswire.
It's been extended to other genres.
But now there are treebanks that
cover things like biomedical English.
Is one popular domain but also other
things like we various kinds of informal
text and more specialized kinds of English
usage such as treebanks of questions.
Okay so hope that motivated for
you why it's been important to
take an empirical approach in developing
parsing systems for human languages.
And the great value that we'll
be able to get from having
data resources like treebanks.